1. What is the difference between synchronous & asynchronous operations?
ans : synchronous operations is a line by line execution and asynchronous operations is like  independant operation like give a time delay for every funcion. 

2. What is dom?
ans : Dom is stands for document object model that refers to dom is a programing interface provided by Browser it allows javascript to access manipulate the structure style and content of the webpage.

3. What are the data types in js?
ans : primitive data types and non-primitive data types
    The primitive ( that ar immutable that means no changes and stores single value )datatypes are=> 
    string - "mithra", 'mithra'
    number - 1,2,3,4,4
    boolean - it has only true or false value
    undefined - undefined values
    null - absants of value
    Sympols - unique values

    non primitive datatypes (mutable that means we can change it and store multiple values ) datatypes are =>

    array - multiple values in a single variable
    object - object has keyvalue pairs (eg: name(mithra):mithra(value));

4. What is an event in js?
ans : event is an action or occurance that happens to the browser , handling the event is called event handling

5. What are closure in js?
ans : closure - it has outer function & inner function after the execution the inner function can access the variables, methods etc from outer function

6. What the difference between map and forEach?
ans : map and forEach are array itration methods 
    map - when condition satisfied then the returned data creates a new array [array itration]
    forEach -  executes a function for each elements in the array(does not return)

7. What is a callback function in js?
ans : function passing inside another function as an argument this is called callBack function

8. What is inheritance in js?
ans :  one class can inherits properties and methods from another class (by using 'extends' keyword)

9. What is the purpose of trycatch statment in js?
ans : The try , catch statement is used to handle errors in JavaScript.
      catch - executes if the promise is rejected.

10. What is the purpose of addeventlistner method in js?
ans : It listens for an event (like a click) and then runs a function when that event happens.

11. Whatis the difference between query selector and query selectorall?
ans : query selectorall - return all matches
      query selector  - return with the first match

12. What is the difference between null and undefined?
ans : The null and undefined are primitive datatypes in js, null means the absants of value. and the undefined means not any value defined

13. What is the difference between = & ===?
ans : the difference between = and  === is. =  It’s used to assign a value to a variable. === It compares both value and data type

14. What is hoisting?
ans : hoisted means call the function before define the function

15. What is '.this' keyword in js?
ans : 

16. What are the different way to define a function?
ans : a funcion means a block of code that perform a particular task. a function defined by different ways that are ---
    1. funcion declaration - function declaration is the one of the ways to define function . the key features are - hoisting, must have a function name, globaly or localy scoped
    2. funcion expression - function expression is a way to define a function inside an expression and assign into a variable . key features like anonymous, named , not hoisted
    3. arrow function -arrow function is a shorter syntax for writing functions in java script ,also introduced in ES6(ECMA SCRIPT 2015)
    4. callback function - function passing inside another function as an argument this is called callBack function
    5. anonymous function - function is defined without a name is called anonymous function
    5. iife - IIFE - immediately invoked function expression,call the function before run the document - IMMEDIATELY INVOKED FUNCTION EXPRESSION
       1. immediately invoked
       2. data privacy - variables defined inside iife are not accessible outside
       3. closure - it has outer function & inner function after the execution the inner function can access the variables, methods etc from outer function
    self containe - executes independantly with effecting surrounding code
    
    6. predefined functions - pre-defined functions are function that are aleardy provided by javascript(built-in functions or native methods)
      . string function
      . math function
      . date function


17. What is the purpose of let ,var, const keyword in js?
ans : let, var, const keywords are used to declare a variable 
      let - re-declaration is not possible but re-assignment is possible and block scoped
      var - redclare,reassign ,function scoped
      const - there is no change it is constant

18. What is the difference between primitive & non primitive datatypes?
ans : primitive data types and non-primitive data types
    The primitive ( that ar immutable that means no changes and stores single value )datatypes are=> 
    string - "mithra", 'mithra'
    number - 1,2,3,4,4
    boolean - it has only true or false value
    undefined - undefined values
    null - absants of value
    Sympols - unique values

    non primitive datatypes (mutable that means we can change it and store multiple values ) datatypes are =>

    array - multiple values in a sngle variable
    object - object has keyvalue pairs (eg: name(mithra):mithra(value));


19. What the use of spread operators in js?
ans : the spread operator(...) in js is used to spread out elements of an array or the properties of an object 
     it allows copy ,combine or expand array or object easly  


20. What is ternery operator in js?
ans : ternary operator is a short hand way to write simple if-else  conditions in a single line 
      it has a contion and two block of code  if condition is true the first block will be worked or false the second block will excecute.

21. What is res parameter?
ans : the rest parameter syntax (...) allows a function to accept an infinite number of arguments as an array

